# Other Projects

## 1 - Detect Cardiologists

Assume, you are working for a large marketing firm that targets doctors based on their practice area. Your current campaign is targeting cardiologists, and you are tasked with coming up with a list of doctors to contact.
You are given a file, physicians.csv, which contains a list of doctors and their unique specialty. You notice that there are a decent number of doctors with "Cardiology" as a specialty, but there are also quite a few doctors whose specialty is "Unknown". You wonder if any of these doctors might actually be Cardiologists.
You find a public dataset, procedures.csv, which contains a list of procedures your doctors performed over the past year. This dataset includes procedures that these doctors performed over the past year, and also number of patients.
The goal is that using this procedure data, determine how many of the doctors with unknown specialty were actually cardiologists.

I answer this question using two techniques:

### Detect Cardiologists using NLP:

In solution 1, I use natural language processing to mine information in procedure column and classify physicians to cardiologists and non-cardiologists based on Naive Bayesian Classifier.

### Detect Cardiologists using Random Forest classification:

In solution 2 I use procedure code column and use Random Forest classifier to classify physicians and do a thorough evaluation of the model based on cross validation, precision/recall trade-off as well as AUC.



## 2 - Delivery Duration Prediction

In this project I used machine learning modeling to predict the expected delivery duration in seconds. The whole process includes data preprocessing and cleaning, some feature engineering, modeling, evaluation of prediction on a holdout set called validation set, and finally generating predictions for the given test set. Validation set is randomly selected from historical data for which the generated prediction is evaluated based on Mean Absolute Error (MAE) that shows average magnitude of error.

Preprocessing and data cleaning step in addition to dealing with missing values, involves removing some data points based on anomalous values found in target value (delivery duration) as well as some key features like total items. At the end this proves to have a very critical impact on improving MAE by close to 10%. In addition to using the list of provided features, I also added three features, one that is derived from two given features and two that are time related features. A side analysis I did with modeling without using these additional features shows that engineering these features helps to improve the overall MAE by over 5%. A comprehensive exploratory analysis is also included that shows how different features are correlated and related to the target value.

In modeling I used an ensemble model that is average of predictions generated by a three-layer dense neural network model as well as a XGBoost regressor model that are trained on the provided historical data. Evaluation of both models showed very close results on validation set, that prompted me to come up with an ensemble model based on the average of their predictions in order to use strength of both models meanwhile alleviating some of their weaknesses. Generated prediction on validation set based on this ensemble model results in MAE of about 636 that is lower than MAE obtained by each one of those models. That means, with delivery duration of average of 2860 seconds (47 mins), the generated prediction has average magnitude of error of about 10 minutes that gives a margin of error of about 22%. Finally, after some preprocessing, by using the ensemble model, predictions are generated for the test set and stored into a csv file called “yahya_predicted_data.csv”.